Hi there! This is email number 4 of 8 in the 'What you need to
know about Ruby' email course you signed up for on
RubyOffRails.com. If I am not creating value for you with these
emails, you can unsubscribe with 1 click at the end of this
email..

Generally speaking, your choice of programming languages can
convey information about how you want to live. For example, I can
brush very large strokes any say the primary objective of PHP
programmers is getting things done. Go programmers like their
domain shiny and new. Python programmers like their code
documented well, and C programmers like their neckbeards scruffy.

What about Ruby programmers? In my experience, Ruby is about
being Happy, and giving back to the community. The Ruby community
is awesome, welcoming, and encourages members to both experiment
with their code and to deploy well tested and easy to read code.
Ruby itself is about happiness and expressiveness.

A quick example (you can run it here ( http://rubyfiddle.com/riddles/334a3 ))

10.times do |i|
puts "This is the #{i} time"
end

Ruby is expressive, meaning it's meant to be close to reading
well written prose as I've seen.

The trick with learning Ruby is being shown the ropes. I highly
recommend learning Ruby with a mentor -- have someone that can
look over your code and teach you the shortcuts that make sense.

Over this email course, I've taught you the benefits of being
happy, efficient, and productive, with regards to installing,
deploying, and figuring out where to find Ruby code. I've shown
how you can learn this on your own if you make the investments in
time reading the Ruby standard library, compare Ruby versions and
installers, and learn the most efficient Ruby methods to use by
trial and error.

I've open sourced Ruby Off Rails for you -- You'll be able to
watch videos at a pace that is convenient for you; they're about
an hour each, and cover topics from CSV importing, to Ruby
syntax, to testing, and having an API endpoint and creating your
own Ruby Gem. You'll also be on a fast track to productivity in
Ruby, with experience in which gems and techniques to use in real
world projects.

You'll have someone to turn to when you're not sure what Gem to
use, or what is wrong with your code. I've been frustrated too
many times learning something new and having no one to turn too;
you won't have that learning Ruby.

If you have any questions about the course, or just want to tell
me something cool that happened in Ruby recently, hit reply. I
read every email, and look forward to hearing about it.

- jesse
