{% if subscriber.first_name %}

Hiya {{ subscriber.first_name }},

{% else %}

Hiya,

{% endif %}

When you meet with a client, you want her/him to be excited at
the chance to get you on the project. This is exactly the
opposite of the usual hiring ritual, where you-the-freelancer are
excited about closing the deal.

How do you achieve the holy grail of getting your client to want
to hire you? Be an expert. (Real-world examples of experts are
movie directors, surgeons, chefs, and you!)

You may not feel like an expert.

It's human nature to look at the people ahead of you and wish you
had done more, made more, sold more, inspired more. That will
always be true. Also true: there are a million ways to be an
expert, and there are a million fields to expertize in.

We need to narrow the definition of "expert." As a software
consultant, an expert is a subject matter expert, one who is
proficient at solving problems using a particular subset of
technology.

You do not have to create the software. You just have to teach
people how to get things done using it.

Step 1: Do something non-trivial with the software.

Step 2: Tell the world about it. Blogging works exceptionally
well for this step.

Step 3: Put yourself on a public stage.

There are public stages at the local level.

People should be able to search for "Houston Ruby developer," for
example, and find you. (That's how a larger than you might think
number of clients find me.)

Here are some ways to get your name out there.

* Give a talk at a local meetup
* Run, or start, a local meetup

Write a 100-page ebook on a topic Launch an open source project

Why bother?

There's more reason for doing this than being Googleable. You
want to be able to say this to a client:

The problem you're having is definitely a tricky one to solve.
I recently gave a talk at the Houston Ruby Brigade about this
very issue and created an article documenting the theory behind
it [link here].

If I find that I can solve your problem AND get you a positive
return on your investment in the project, I'm confident I can
knock this out of the park for you.

In the next email, we'll talk about how you can narrow your
field-of-expertise for maximum benefit.

- jesse
