{% if subscriber.first_name %}

Hiya {{ subscriber.first_name }},

{% else %}

Hiya,

{% endif %}

This is your third of eight emails in Quick Wins from Tex Mex
Consulting. You're receiving this because you signed up at Tex
Mex Consulting. Don't want to receive these any longer? There's a
one-click unsubscribe link at the bottom.

Companies that hire you as a freelancer or contractor love to pay
net-30. I dislike some practices, but the idea of you working for
60 days without being paid tops my list of things that I hate.
Wait — 60 days? Yup: you start work April 1, invoice on May 1,
get paid May 30th. Maybe.

This One Time

I was invoicing twice a month with net-30 terms. $client started
to pay late — a week at first, stretching to a full month of
invoices not being paid.

You might be able to guess what happened next. $client claimed
they weren't happy and that they weren't going to pay all of the
invoices I had sent. We settled the $8,000 I had invoiced down to
$2,500 so I could get some cash in the door. #screwedover

The core fault of mine was that I got a deposit for the work
($4,000), but then I didn't set that money aside. The first
invoice was about $4,000, and I considered it paid. The client
was happy for months, and I thought, "This is fine." In Tex Mex
Consulting, I'll cover this case study and show how having a
contract probably won't help you if the amount is under five
figures.

Bottom line: net-30 is wrong. Having someone owe you money gives
them leverage. They will use this leverage against you.

Treat Deposits as Deposits, Not Prepayment

Instead, here's what you can do to prevent this screwage:

Get a deposit to cover all invoices that might be late (say in
your net-30, that might be one full month). Put the deposit in a
savings account and truly refund it to the customer after the
project ends and they pay their last invoice. Halt work if they
are ever one day late. Do not continue until they wire you funds
or courier over a cashier's check.

My Ideal Scenario

You don't sell hours, you sell a product: a week-long sprint that
contains development, testing, QA, and project management.

The client prepays for the weekly engagement. You agree on the
number of features you will ship that week. You then build, test,
and deploy those changes.

The client continues the project by prepaying for another week.
You do not start work unless the client pays.

Risk Avoidance

What's the commonality between the "product pod" and my "deposit"
method? You are never out any money. There is no risk on your
part — and your clients cannot screw you over.

* jesse
