{% if subscriber.first_name %}

Hiya {{ subscriber.first_name }},

{% else %}

Hiya,

{% endif %}

This is your fifth of eight emails in Quick Wins from Tex Mex
Consulting. You're receiving this because you signed up at Tex
Mex Consulting. Don't want to receive these any longer? There's a
one-click unsubscribe link at the bottom.

You almost certainly charge by the hour — or at the least, you
think of your rate in terms of hours spent. Lawyers do it,
construction workers do it, and waiters do it. Workers will start
the clock, work for a set number of hours, and then stop the
clock.

But our work as software developers does not match the hourly
work model. If your work is anything like mine, it's a series of
interruptions, meetings, and emails with brief periods of flow.

Your clients tend to understand this at a basic level. It comes
out as "I don't want to pay for meetings" and "Why are you
charging me for sending emails?"

We understand that we can't achieve optimal "flow" if we don't
engage
in project management. And if we spend our time client
hand-holding,
we can't do our job. Clients don't want to pay for the project
management; they'll relent, but it can become a fight and often
leads to a poor customer experience.

So instead, let's accept that an hour is too finite a measurement
for software development. It's impossible for me to work on
project A from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and then work for project B
from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. Context changes from project to project
are too expensive.

You should instead tell your client that the smallest unit you
charge by is the day. They'll get the "gold treatment" when they
work with you. Your clients get you for the entire day. You won't
charge them for emails or meetings; it's all included.

You and client agree on a set of features you'll deliver that
day, and then you deliver those features. Win win win.

Side benefits of this? It's easier to get clients to prepay for
daily work. It's easy to raise your effective rate to $200 an
hour or more. It also leads to weekly rates — the gold standard
in consulting.

Scared about making the switch? Try it out on your next proposal.
Take your hourly rate * 8 * 1.2 to get a daily rate. (Freelancers
who charge $50/hour should charge at least $500 a day.)

Try it out and let me know how it goes!

* jesse

P.S. If you're enjoying this email course, I would totally
appreciate a share. Share to Twitter ( http://twitter.com/share?text=I%27m%20loving%20the%20tex%20mex%20consulting%20email%20course&url=http://blog.texmexconsulting.com/email-course )
