{% if subscriber.first_name %}

Hiya {{ subscriber.first_name }},

{% else %}

Hiya,

{% endif %}

This is your sixth of eight emails in Quick Wins from Tex Mex
Consulting. You're receiving this because you signed up at Tex
Mex Consulting. Don't want to receive these any longer? There's a
one-click unsubscribe link at the bottom.

So far in this email course, I've shown you how to position
yourself and how to say "yes" only to projects that fit your
vision. I've also shown you how to try out these techniques on
new projects to reduce risk.

To implement these into your business, you could spend the next
few months researching sales theory, pricing theory, positioning,
contracts, and productized consulting. That's what I did â€” and I
for sure describe that as "the hard way."

I know you have many more things to do with your day than just
learning about consulting, so consider purchasing Tex Mex
Consulting. You'll get advice like what you've seen in my emails
built out of years of trial and error, thousands of dollars in
mistakes (and many more in successes), and several master classes
I've put to the test. I've distilled my experiences into an
easy-to-read no-fluff workflow filled with actionable information
designed to propel your freelancing business into a professional
consultancy.

--------------------------
Complete Concierge Edition
--------------------------

You'll receive the ebook along with three video interviews with
prominent consultants. We discuss theories about making clients
happy, delivering software as craftsmen, and most importantly,
the biggest mistakes we've made so far.

You and I will schedule two thirty-minute consultations to go
over your positioning (choosing a niche) and current branding.
I'll give you at least three takeaways on each call that you'll
be able to put into action right away. Buy Now for $195 ( https://gum.co/texmex-conceirge ).

------------------------
Digital Edition + Videos
------------------------

If you'd like a more affordable option, you can receive the book
and the video interviews. Buy Now for $55 ( https://gum.co/texmex-video ).

---------------
Digital Edition
---------------

If a budget is an issue, I highly recommend getting the book by
itself. You won't regret it. Buy Now for $40 ( https://gum.co/texmex-book ).

Have any questions about Tex Mex Consulting? Hit reply and I'll
answer.

Party On,

- jesse
P.S. If you do regret purchasing any of these plans, let me know,
and I'll refund your money with no questions asked. If you don't
make more money than you spend with me, I don't want your money.
