{% if subscriber.first_name %}

Hiya {{ subscriber.first_name }},

{% else %}

Hiya,

{% endif %}

This is the final of eight emails in Quick Wins from Tex Mex
Consulting. You're receiving this because you signed up at Tex
Mex Consulting. Don't want to receive these any longer? There's a
one-click unsubscribe link at the bottom.

What you need to complete your business model is a repeatable
process to get projects across your desk. You need to look at a
number of leads in order to select the ones you'll knock out of
the park.

The number of leads that come to you organically will rise and
fall over time; you need a way to generate leads that turn into
gigs. Because #rent.

Being visible is the single greatest trick you can pull to keep
yourself in the forefront of people's minds. Reread the first
email I sent on being an expert, and go out into the world and do
those things.

Instead of calling it "networking" — which evokes bad feelings in
tech — call it "being there." Go to user groups, start-up weekend
events, coffee meetups. Talk to people, ask what they do. Hand
them your card.

You can also hold office hours at a coffee shop; post a link on
Twitter and let people come ask you about tech. If no one shows,
work on your laptop. #winwinwin

Remember, networking is just being there and asking people what
they are interested in.

* jesse

P.S. If you've enjoyed tips like the ones throughout this email
course, consider purchasing Tex Mex Consulting ( http://texmexconsulting.com ). You'll get a 100+ page ebook with
everything I know about consulting that's designed to make you a
professional freelancer with better projects, a better bottom
line, and a better life.
